were regarded rather highly. Yeah,
Scripp Mitchell was, he was a drawing teacher. I
enjoyed him. He was a fine old gentleman.
Colonel R.T. Milner, he was a I was a native of
Henderson and was a friend of my mother and father.
He was president at that time. He was president all
the time you were there, I believe, was he not? Did
you have much personal contact with him? Very
little. Very little, even though he was a family
friend. That's right. I didn't want to be accused
of polishing the apple. Uh-huh. Well, I could see
where that might be a problem. Yeah.
What was the overall attitude, would you say, of
the students to President Milner on one hand and
also to the commandant on the other hand? That
would be the total university administration.
Well, they liked Colonel Milner. They liked
Captain Moses. But Levi and Gene Brown, they
didn't think so much of. He was the commandant the
last year or so you were there. What was the problem
with Mr. Brown? I guess he was just a little too,
I don't know whether you'd call it strict or what,
but the boys, they didn't like him as well as they
did Captain Moses. Captain Moses was a Texan to
start with. Was there a big age difference between
Captain Moses and Mr. Brown? Not too much.
Lieutenant Brown, he was the first lieutenant.
Was there a captain there? Moses was the captain.
They had both been regular Army for a good while,
though, I think. Yes.
One of the things that's of a considerable amount
of interest to us is the numerous traditions which
are carried on particularly in the Corps of Cadets
today. And
we like to find out which of these were in vogue when
you were a student. Today we have such things as the
silver taps, the muster, and the bonfire in
particular. and some other odds and ends. Were any
of these in existence at the time you were there?
No, we never had a bonfire, and we never had silver
taps, and we never had a muster during my time
there. Have you been to a muster since you
graduated? Not there. I've been to it locally.
Yeah, locally.
Well, we had understood that that the muster
tradition began in 1903 when the Corps decided
that Texas Independence Day should not be a school
day and they need to have a holiday. It seemed to me
we had a holiday, but we didn't have a muster as
such. Well, they don't have a holiday today, but
they have a muster. Kind of reversed it there.
We know that from time to time, some of the faculty
children, faculty, perhaps faculty wives or
other faculty relatives, girls in particular,
attended classes at A&M. Were there any girls in
classes while you were there?
Colonel Miller had a niece that, what was her name?
that attended some classes. She lived with them
and attended some classes.
Gieske's had two daughters that attended some
classes.
What Gieske was that? He was... F.E.? F.E., I
guess. Taught there, and he was later on, I
believe... He was in some phase of engineering, I
don't know. He was college engineer for a long,
long time, I believe, and a college architect. And
he was in the... Well, now, wait a minute. Must not
have been F.E. This gentleman had a Halliburton
stash.
But F.E., if I'm thinking, no, I'm... I'm thinking
of another one, I guess. If he was class of 88 or
something like that. He's probably the one. The
one I'm thinking about was class of 12, I believe. I
believe he had a son probably class of 12. Yeah.
I've forgotten now what his name was. Those are the
only three that I recall. I don't think we've
covered this yet.
We know that there were number of students who had
jobs of one sort or another while they were there,
and of course continue that practice today. Did
you have some type of student employment while you
were there? No. Okay.
Yeah, we had all sorts of...
I used to be over at the experimental station. He
had the newspaper, Houston Post, I believe it was.
He delivered it on campus or something?
He subscribed to it and he delivered it. What was
his
name? Having gone through school and been in the
Corps of Cadets and having attained the
rank of captain the time you graduated, did you
participate in the First World War then after you
graduated? Yes. In what capacity did you serve?
Well, I tried to get in everything I could, and I had
flat feet, and they turned me down. I finally went
to San Antonio while I was working in San Antonio.
And a friend of mine who, I was working for the Bell
Telephone Company, and a friend of mine who was
with the Bell Telephone, in fact, I moved to San
Antonio to take his place. He had gotten into the
Signal Corps and got a commission right out of
Civil Life, and he told me about it, so I went out.
The doctor that examined me all he noticed was that
thumb. I sprained that wrist one time, and that's
all I could do with that thumb was do it like that. I
couldn't straighten it out to save my neck that
way. He said, what's the matter with that thumb,
son? I said, nothing. Wiggled it. Well, I was in the
Army. I got a commission right out of the Civil
Life, the Signal Corps.
And where all did you serve then? You mean training
and all? Yeah, what, did you stay in the United
States all the time or did you go abroad? No, I went
to what was then Camp Alfred Vale, Little Silver,
New Jersey. It's now Fort Monmouth there, Signal
Corps' main training camp.
And from there I went to Fort Levmouth to a depot,
which I ended up getting ready to go overseas. Went
overseas.
I first was a post signal officer at Bordeaux.
Then they transferred me to Nevers,
and from Nevers to Trier in Germany after the
armistice was signed, and from Trier to Paris, and
from then back home. Have any particular exciting
experiences while you were there? No, it was very
calm. I was an SOS all the time. There was nothing
exciting going on. Okay. If we might jump back to
your student days again for a couple of minutes.
In looking through the Longhorns from your senior
year, it had indication that you had sort of gone up
the ranks in G Company. but that you were also a
first lieutenant in the RV. How were you selected
for the RV? Well, they had a secret vote. When I was
there, you had to be voted on to get in. There were no
scholastic requirements when I was there. How
about military competence? Well, yes. That was a
consideration, I'm sure. Well, I know it was
because I voted on plenty of them. I thought you
said you were in for how many years then? I went in in
the fall of my junior year. We're in for junior and
senior year. So you participated in the two vote,
two elections.
Who selected, I noticed you were first lieutenant
in your senior year. How were you chosen to be first
lieutenant? Voted on. Within the members of the
RV, they elected all of the officers. Did being in
the RV require a good bit more of your time than
being in the regular corps of cadets? No. Just the
drill. The drill was the only additional time we
spent. We didn't
devote any time to anything else. We didn't make
any trips like the RVs do now. And there's this
drill and exhibitions. We had exhibitions, of
course, but those were usually on Sundays.
Uh-huh. For whom would you have the exhibition?
Oh, some dignitary that might come to school.
Well, this would be the commandant would ask you to
ask the RVs to give a demonstration. You were then
kind of the crack drill team. Oh, yes. Yeah. OK. You
were also a member, if you can remember this, of
something referred to as the KK. Yeah. What did
those initials stand for? Keelakinesis.
K-E-L-A-K-E-N-K-E-N-E-S-I-S,
I guess. And what was the function of that? It was a
dance club, strictly a dance club. What kind of
dances? Or dancing? Oh, ballroom dances all they
ever did back in those days. Didn't do square
dancing? No, no. It was near a fraternity, I guess
you could say. Did this organization sponsor
dances for the students? No, just for the club.
Just for the club. How frequently did you have a
dance? About two a year. And who would do the music?
Who would provide the music? We'd bring in
orchestras. Bring in an orchestra. How large of an
organization was it then? 20 members. So you would
then, with that small a membership, unless you had
somebody to supply you with some money, you
couldn't have brought in very much of a big-name
orchestra then, I take it. Well, I don't know how
they did it, I don't recall, but I know I chipped in
and we paid to have orchestras come in. Of course,
we know none of these big-name orchestras. Not
like for the senior hop or something like that? No,
no. Commencement hop. Any
idea how old the organization was by the time you
joined it? No, but I know that was supposed to be the
end of it. 13 was supposed to be the end of it. 13 was
the end of it. Was that by a decision? We were more or
less sub Rosa my senior year. Was that the decision
of the school then? Yeah, the school authorities.
It got to be a little political down there between
the Swastikas and the KKs. Who were the Swastikas?
That was another organization like the KKs. For
dances? Well, it was a dance club originally, but
it got so political that they, oh, I won't say this.
Some of my old Swastika friends might hear this.
They didn't have a limited membership, I'll put it
that way.
So they had a larger membership. They had a larger
membership than the KKs, yeah. And were you
elected as a KK? How about the Swastikas? Were you
elected to that too?
But it was not as strict on who went in? Well, I don't
know. We had certain requirements. I don't recall
just exactly what they were. You had to be a decent
type fellow. No financial requirements. You
didn't have to be from rich parents or anything of
that sort. Just kind of like getting into a
fraternity, I'd say. And where did the girls come
from for the dances that you had? All over the
country. Oh, did you bring your girl from home
primarily? Did any of the fellows have girls from
Bryan to come for the dances? Oh, yes. Oh, yeah.
What about any of the faculty daughters? Well...
As I recall, there weren't any other there than the
Gieske two daughters that were that age.
So that kind of limited that. Yes.
There was a girl from Brown married the Texas
University coach that used to coach it then. The
Bible? The Bible, the ex-Bible. Rowena Rose, she
was what we called a college widow. And there was a
girl named Brian, Dessie Weddington, and
Madeline Hanway, who was Madeline Parker, and
there was a slew of Brian girls. But they imported
them. I imported one from Brian, from Beaumont all
the time.
The Longhorn also indicated you were manager of
the Turnverein. Turnverein Club, yes. That was a
club inside just an athletic club in the NG
Company. We had room in the basement of Goodwin
Hall, and we converted it into a gymnasium. We had
boxing clubs and a punching bag. dumbbells and
inning clubs and things like that. So what, you
kind of took care of the equipment as manager of it?
Yeah.
Was this a common practice for... No, that's the
only club of that type on the campus. Was the only
one of that like that on campus? Did you just have a
larger percentage of athletically inclined men
in your company? No, I think we had a fellow named
Clyde Griesenbeck that was athletically
inclined. He didn't play football, baseball, or
track or anything else, but he liked to keep the
condition. And he formed that little club. Yeah, I
imagine that was a fairly short-lived thing. It
was in that one year. And then you said, I believe,
you were manager of the basketball team. Yeah,
that was A&M's first basketball team, too. What
was your responsibility there? Well, take care of
the equipment and, well, there wasn't much of
anything to do other than that. But you made all the
trips with the team. Made all the trips and looked
after the finances of getting the money in. Of
course, we played Houston High School and
Galveston High School and the Galveston YMCA.
That's about all the teams that were available.
Those are the only two trips we made, one to Houston
and one to Galveston. Then did you play some games
on campus, too? Oh, yes. We played the high school,
I don't recall. I believe we played the YMCA,
Galveston YMCA on campus.
Well, Monty Montgomery, he was a football player
and a basketball player. I guess the star of that
team.
Gosh, when you get old as I am, names kind of slip
away from you. I know what you mean. I'm somewhat
younger than you are, and lots of names have
slipped away from me. But Zeke Caldwell, whose
father had a jewelry store in Bryan, There's still
a Caldwell's Jewelry in Bryan. Is there? You
graduated in the spring of 13. What did you do as
your first job after you graduated? Well, I lived
in San Angelo and my father had sold the ranch.
Wasn't anything to do. I didn't want to be a cowboy.
So I went to Dallas and Ran into a former Aggie,
worked for Bell Telephone Company, and got a job
with them in the traffic department.
Became a traffic chief, what they called a traffic
chief, and worked on through to the
latter part of the 17.
I was made Division Supervisor of Traffic at San
Antonio, and that's when I got in the Army.
What have you done, what did you do after you got out
of the Army then? Oh, I got into the oil business
down in the Eastland, Rangers, this and that. And
what aspect of the oil business did you get into?
Production. Production. Had a lease
down near Ranger and also was in sales for a while.
For how long did you do that?
I'd say four or five years.
What did you do next then? I went to work for the
Federal Land Bank of Houston. The Farm Credit
Administration signed with the Federal Land Bank
of Houston. At what point? Do you remember what
year that was? 1933. Where
were you located first? here, Lubbock. You come
directly to Lubbock in 1933 then, with the Federal
Land Bank out of Houston. And you were in what
capacity, an appraiser? Land Bank appraiser was
the title. What was your, what did you do?
Appraised farms and ranches for loans. This would
be if somebody wanted to buy the farmland? Well,
various purposes. They had They'd make loans for
purchase of property, for improvement of
property. And if you had something above a
homestead, you could get money to buy cattle or
equipment. You say something above a homestead?
Yeah. 200 acres is a suburban homestead. So if you
had more than 200 acres? More than 200 acres, yeah.
You could borrow money to buy cattle or equipment.
They've liberalized that a lot since I left. Of
course you can't borrow in Texas, you can't create
a loan on a homestead for anything other than
purchase money or improvements.
You can't borrow money on a homestead to buy
livestock or invest in something else. But say, if
you own more than 200 acres, but you don't live
there, you can borrow money on it then, I take it. If
it's not your place of residence. Well, let's say
you own a section of land. You can cut off your
homestead and borrow on the excess. Uh-huh. 320
acres. You can cut off 120 acres and borrow on
that. So for how long did you... worked for the
Federal Land Bank then? Well, from 33 to 61.
That's...
Nearly 30 years. You're 29. I'm 29, yes. And you
retired? Yeah. I've had my own appraisal and loan
service since that time.
You work pretty steadily, or do you kind of work
when you want to? When I want to. I
might work two or three cases a year, something
like that. Now, how long a time would it, you say two
or three cases, how much time would you put in on an
individual case? Well, it depends on the size of
it, of course.
A farm, nominal size farm, would take from three to
six, eight days. The ranch might take you a month.
So since 61, then, you've been an appraiser. Are
you gradually decreasing the amount of
appraising you do? Well, that and I guess
I'm not actively making loans anymore. I just quit
that.
I don't know. I had a heart attack in 68, so that
slowed me down. That slowed you down a good bit,
yeah. I was real active up until then, but since
then I've slowed down considerably.
You say you quit making loans, and were you... I was
soliciting loans. I broker a loan, put it that way.
In other words, you would act as a go-between
between somebody who wanted to borrow money and
somebody who had something to lend. Yeah. I
represented the Prudential Insurance Company
and Equitable Life Insurance Society. Those
people would be interested in loaning fairly
substantial amounts of money, I believe. Oh,
yeah. They didn't have any limit to their loans.
Did they have a minimum limit? Oh, it seemed to me
like $2,500 was the least that they could.
Normally it was $5,000. They didn't have a loan
under
that. Because it costs money to put loans on a book,
you know, and service them. So you've got to have a
good enough interest return to pay that. Uh-huh.
Had you had any contact with any of these insurance
companies previously for you to get started
becoming a loan solicitor for them? Oh, yes. We
appraised them. We hobnobbed with
representatives of different companies. This
was when you were an appraiser with the land bank.
With the land bank, yes.
I'm not a reprobate. I've been an
elder in the Presbyterian Church for 40 years. I'd
like to get that in there. Okay. We do want to record
any other service you've done to the community.
Well, being a land bank appraiser, I was in the
country all the time. I do belong to Kiwanis Club
now, and I have in time belonged to Rotary Club and
Alliance Club. over the years, but until I
retired, I didn't try to belong to any service club
or take any active part in civic affairs. You might
step back for a minute in your time with the land
bank
to ask how wide of an area did you cover when you were
an appraiser? Well, when I worked at the land bank,
I usually say I worked all Well, from north Texas,
from Temple north, and from east and west, from El
Paso to Louisiana and Oklahoma line. So you
covered almost the entire state. Yeah. Since I
retired, I've worked practically all of Texas and
a good part of New Mexico.
So you had a good bit of traveling to do. Yeah, I did.
I was going home so much that I couldn't belong to a
service club. Well, the land bank had appraisers
in other areas. Oh, yeah. In fact, there was
another one here in Lubbock.
One in Plainview, one in Amarillo. They had quite a
bit of loan business. How would they determine who
would go to a particular location to appraise a
piece of property? Well, when I first started,
they would assign all the applications to one
individual, and he would, in turn, he was in charge
of a group of appraisers. That was in 1933 when they
the Farm Loan Act went into effect in a big way. That
is, they put on another 25% that they could loan and
call it the commissioner loan. Farmers were all in
terrible condition, and financially, you know.
Insurance companies were pressing them. All
lenders, all institutional lenders were really
after them to pay off if they could.
And this leader of the group would pass out the
applications. Later, they got to signing them
from the bank. I remember one weekend, just before
Christmas, I was down at Steamboat. And the chief
appraiser called me and told me that He was going to
send me the next week way up in Follett, way up in the
very northeast part of Texas, up in Lipscomb
County. And I told him, I said, well, I'm going to
stop home Christmas. You know that, don't you? He
said, oh, yes, I'm sure.
But they sent us all over. They wanted us to go.
Later, they... The last two or three years, three
or four years, the amount of time they assigned
them, they let the Secretary of Treasuries assign
me, the managers of these farm owners
associations, to sign the applications. At that
time we had a territory, but there was overlap on
that. Wasn't that a hard and fast rule, staying
either within a given territory?